---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: Effectively Getting Help
date: 2021-09-09
labels:
 - Education
 - Stack Overflow
---

There are many moments in our life where we are working on a problem, get stuck, and need some insight to figure out a solution. There are a wide variety of ways where you can seek a solution such as from your textbook, an article, or from an individual. More likely than not, receiving help from individual aid you in learning more about the problem and why the solution came to be that way. You are also able to communicate with the individual more rather than reading an article or textbook that you cannot ask questions to. The way we can seek help can be done through many different methods, considering how access to online resources is readily available in a matter of mere seconds. 

A common resource is visiting the website Stack Overflow which follows a forum format in which you can post your question or find a question similar to what you are looking for and refer to many different answers from individuals around the world. This kind of community-based forum allows you to possibly find a question that someone else has already asked as well. This kind of practice does not only have to be done through Stack Overflow but can be applied to other resources when looking online as well. In this way, you are efficiently saving time for yourself and others if you can find a question that someone has already asked and was provided with a good answer. Here, we will take a look at an example of a bad question and a good question in order to further our understanding of the difference it makes to effectively ask a question. 

## What makes a bad question, bad?
When utilizing the Stack Overflow application as a resource for finding an answer to your question or problem, you will notice that users have an option to upvote or downvote the question and answer(s) provided. This allows other viewers and the person who asked the question to be able to assess whether the question and solution are effective as to what other users were looking for in an answer. 

Let us take a look at an example of what an ineffective question looks like. For this question, a user sets the title of the question as "simple javascript help." This title does not narrow down what the issue is except that we know it is supposedly "simple" and it is regarding Javascript. The question gives a description that mentions he is new to Javascript and goes right into what he wants his program to do. The user does not describe at all how his current program works, his knowledge of the Javascript program, what he tried, and a definitive question that other users can focus on trying to answer. 

In essence, the description of the question is confusing and we are only provided with a block of code to work with. Due to this, many users have replied to the question unsure of what he is exactly looking for. One user commented on the question that states "Please clarify your question." There were three answers provided and the first answer that was given was also trying to clarify what he is looking for. The answer states "If you're asking how to find out what the value of an attribute in an element is" which then tells us that the question asked was unclear and the person trying to answer had to narrow down what the person was looking for. This question has one upvote but none of the answers themselves have an upvote. Moreover, the user who posted the question did not mark any of the three answers provided as an answer. Although this question was viewed 76 times, people did not find it insightful and the user does not think any of the answers were what he was looking for. As a result, this question is a good example of what an ineffective question looks like which shows how important it is to ask a good question to get a good answer to your solution. 

Link for the [Bad Question example.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6948765/simple-javascript-help)

## What does a good question look like?
Now that we know what an ineffective and bad question looks like, we can take a look at an example of what a good question looks like and how it is marginally different from the example we saw. This question has 2194 votes, has been viewed 555k times, and has 17 different answers with the top answer having 1354 upvotes. We can see how much more feedback was given to this question compared to the previous question we just discussed. 

This question has the title of "How to decide when to use Node.js." The question itself provides a clear cut of what the user is asking for. In the description, the user informs that they are new however they have done their extensive research before coming to Stack Overflow to formally ask the question. There is information on what they think is Node.js is and provided the resources that they used to learn about Node.js. The description is then followed up with why they are trying to understand Node.js and ends with a general question of "When to use a particular framework and what type of problems is it particularly suited for?" This allows people who view the question to also get an understanding of Node.js and follow the resources that this user has provided in case they wanted to do the research themselves. For the people who answered this question, they commended the user for doing such great research and the ability to provide a summary of what they think Node.js is. Then they were able to give their input of what Node.js is especially used for and how it is effective in its way compared to PHP, Python, and Ruby. Many different users were able to answer this question giving their input that provides insight to the overall discussion that this question has. We can see it clearly in the numbers where this forum was viewed about 555k times. On account of this, there is an apparent difference that we can see when asking a good or bad question which can lead to great discussions allowing users to learn or ending up with an unassertive answer to the question.

Link for the [Good Question example.](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5062614/how-to-decide-when-to-use-node-js)

## Concluding remarks:
After comparing the two examples above that show what a good question and a bad question could look like, we can see that there is a substantial difference in how we can learn more based on the question being asked. Before you think about asking the question, you should have done your extensive research and see if you can solve it for yourself. Even after doing research, although you may have not found the answer; you have gain more information about the subject, leading you one step closer to finding a solution. When asking the question to a community, it is important that you be detailed in what you are looking for and what you have attempted so far. This saves time for the user trying to answer your question and helps them better understand what you know or don't know. The more precise and concise you are about your question, the less time it may take for someone else to take a look at your problem and help you in finding the solution. The good question example created a great discussion amongst the community where people were able to put their input on what Node.js is good for. Even after the discussion was done, it remains on Stack Overflow as a record for what future users can look into in case they had the same question. From this experience, I have learned that if you can ask a great question, you are also allowing the person who answered the question to teach others who also had the same or similar question.

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
