---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: The Javascript 1 Experience
date: 2021-09-01
labels:
 - Javascript
 - Education
---

As a developing computer science student, it is of utmost important that I take advantage of the resources given to me while I can, given the opportunity to pursue a degree at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. I began my interest in Computer Science during my second year of college and therefore the current knowledge I have about computer science is minimal and is based on the information I have gained thus far in the courses I have taken. As ICS 314 is one of the core courses needed to graduate, ICS 314 introduces brand new concepts about significant software engineering concepts and technologies that are relevant to today's technological societies. As a part of this learning experience, we are first introduced to learning the basics of Javascript. For this essay, I will reflect what I have experienced thus far as a Javascript novice in my second week of this intensive software engineering course. 

### First Impressions of Javascript
As with many computer scientists, I am excited to learn a new programming language that will allow me to understand more about how different programming languages can be beneficial for different things in the world. We start learning Javascript through the free coding website freecodecamp.org where we must complete the Basic JavaSript course which involves 111 lessons and the ES6 course which has 31 lessons. As a student who has learned Java and C/C++, the Basic Javascript course was mainly reviewing the basics but learning it in a different language. It was like learning the alphabet in a completely new language. We can make comparisons in the similarities and differences that allow us to learn a bit faster since we have basic knowledge of how the other languages function. I find that Javascript in itself was much more easy to learn in how to write code. What's more interesting is that we are able to do Javascript coding inside any modern web browser itself without harming our host device. Learning ES6 introduced the many differences from the basic Javascript shown in the first course. Majority of the content prior to the ES6 was ES5 (ECMAScript 5) that was finalized in 2009. This was engaging to learn as it showed how Javascript evolved as a language and what kinds of things were improved. As I continue grow as a computer science, it will be interesting to see how the programming languages grow as well in accordance to technological growth overall.

### Javascript versus the languages I've learned
The languages that I have learned thus far is Java, C/C++, and now I am currently learning python and Javascript. My first thought when learning to code Javascript is that "Javascript is a much more flexible version than the first part of it's name 'Java'." I realize that the more languages I learn, I am able to understand the limitations and flexibilities of each language and how they can benefit me. It also allows me to further narrow down what languages I may prefer coding in. In comparison to Java, I feel that Java is the much more over-complex language that can be useful in the specificity aspect. It is known to be widely used due to the versatility that it provides for running on different types of computers. In comparison to C/C++, I find that it is similar in the simplicity. It is much more straightforward in terms of the writing however C/C++ is much more robust. C/C++ although simple, maintains the foundational language in which appears more traditional than the newer languages seen today. I enjoy the freedom that Javascript has to provide in the very small things such as how we do not need to specifically state the data type for each variable we declare, we mainly use "var", "let", or "const." However, with Java and C/C++ being the first languages I have learned has made a habit of me typing in the data types such as "int", "float", and "string." The ease in Javascript almost seems illegal compared to Java, although their names are very close. As we are only in the second week of this ICS 314 course, it does seem much easier as of now. I am open to learning many different and unique programming languages as I still want to expand my knowledge on programming in the future through the use of different languages. 

### The Intense Workout of the Day 
The ICS 314 introduces a new way of learning the material. It provides a very intense work out as a means to introduce a new way of solving problems in a limited amount of time. This is called the "Workout of the Day" or WOD. WODs are problems that must be solved within a certain amount of time before the limit is reached. After the maximum time limit, it is considered "Did not finish" or "DNF+." The WOD allows the student to be put under pressure and train them to critically think in a short amount of time ensuring they have had enough practice in order to solve the big in-class WOD. Each week we are put into a series of practice WODs that are similar variations of the all-or-nothing in-class WOD on Thursdays. Having high stakes is itended to have the students create a more determined mindset to ensure that they able to put the most effort into finding the one of many solutions. The in-class WOD is a straight cut 100 points or 0 points. In other words, you either solve it with the correct solution in the certain amount of time, or you don't. 

Although stressful, it seems as though this method works and makes you put effort into understanding the material. We are only in the second week of this course however I find myself trying my best to critically think for each WOD I do and having a strong desire to improve and understand what I did wrong. The page that you do your practice WOD(s) on actually has a video with the answer right below it. However, I have no impulse as to clicking that video in order to solve the problem. There is more of an eagerness for me to improve my problem-solving skills with the satisfaction of actually being able to solve it when I reach within the time limit below the DNF+. This kind of training actually excites me because I find that I'm learning more when I attempt it myself and see what I did wrong, hoping to improve on the next WOD I need to do. It takes me out of my comfort zone and makes me straighten my back. This is much different from any of the courses I've had before because we never had to do consistent exercises that train our brain to critically think in a short amount of time. With high stakes, if I end up not being able to successfully complete a lot of the WODs it gives me more motivation to try harder in understanding how to problem solve in a more efficient timeframe. As it is only the second week, I hope that will still be self-motivated to gradually improve in the high stakes setting that overall provides more reward as I continue taking this course.  